xylo: a renderer of filled rational quadratic Bézier curves
-----------------------------------------------------------

The OpenGL red book describes a method to fill an arbitrary polygon with a
solid monochrome color using a triangle-fan and stenciling with XOR, which
effectively counts how often triangles overlap (fragments which are drawn an
odd number of times is inside the polygon). The on-curve control points forms a
polygon which can be drawn this way. Secondly, in a 2005 paper by Loop and
Blinn a method for drawing filled (rational) quadratic and cubic Bézier curves
is presented. Since the convex hull of a quadratic bezier curve is a triangle,
it's particularly easy to draw such curves using triangles. The curve triangles
can be drawn in the same way as the polygon to add or carve out curved shapes.
The monochrome shape could be used as a mask or alpha channel to render text or
geometric shapes.

When combining pixels using the XOR method, if a smaller closed curve is drawn
on top of a larger one then the smaller will invert the area it covers.
Therefore multiple shapes can be drawn on top of each other to create a shape
with holes in it.

Curves are passed to the xylo renderer with the `struct xylo_shape` data
structure. It contains one or more outlines, which is a single filled curve,
and each outline consists of a list of control points and weights. The control
points are paired up, so that there is on on-curve and one-off curve point.

The curve is stored more or less as is in a OpenGL buffer and rendered as a
GL_LINE_LOOP. A vertex shader transforms the on and off curve points and a
geometry shader creates two triangles out of the two points (plus the origin
point). The curve triangle gets the perspective-corrected X/W, Y/W, and 1/W
components of the ideal quadratic curve (see Loop and Blinn) and this is what
the fragment shader uses to determine whether a fragment is above or below the
parabola.

References
----------

OpenGL 1.1 Programming Guide (red book) chapter 14

Loop, Charles, and Blinn, Jim. "Resolution independent curve rendering using
programmable graphics hardware." ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG). Vol 24.
No. 3. ACM, 2005.

